- Now President Biden's top UN Envoy Ambassador Linda
Thomas-Greenfield told CBS News that the US will respond very
swiftly should the situation deteriorate.
She says there's no evidence of Russia moving some troops away
from the border.
She spoke with CBS News Foreign Affairs Analyst Pamela
Falk, where she urged Americans to get out
while there is still time.
AMB.
LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD: We would welcome the Russians
moving some of their troops across the border, but we've--
away from the border, but we've seen no evidence of that, Pam.
And they still have hundreds plus thousand troops
on the border with Ukraine as we speak.
And those troops are threatening the independence
and the sovereignty of this country.
And so we want the Russians to accept a diplomatic way
forward, a discussion at the negotiating table
that will address their security concerns
and address the security concerns of Europe
and of Ukraine moving forward.
And until that happens, we will continue
to lean in on diplomacy.
PAMELA FALK: And diplomatic efforts have been intense.
Have you spoken with your counterparts?
And what can the UN do with Russia
on the Security Council and a veto vote?
AMB.
LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD: While Russia
is the president of the council, they
can't block council actions.
They can't stop the council from having meetings or discussions
on the situation as they [INAUDIBLE]
yesterday during a lunch that they hosted.
So we hope to continue to engage with them
on this issue in the council.
They will certainly make every effort
to distract us by putting other things on the agenda,
but we will continue to press on this issue in the council.
PAMELA FALK: And what does a diplomatic solution look like?
AMB.
LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD: What it will entail
is sitting down at the table, talking through the issues
that the Russians have talking through the issues of Ukraine.
It's about also talking about the Russians commitment
or lack thereof to pull their troops out of Crimea.
It's about sitting down and finding a way forward
that will address all of our security concerns
and pull us away from the brink of this confrontation
that the Russians are responsible for.
PAMELA FALK: Ambassador are you optimistic that there will
be a diplomatic way forward?
AMB.
LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD: Yes, I continue
to be optimistic that we can find a diplomatic way forward.
But I have to be honest that we're also
preparing for something else.
We're unified in our efforts with our European colleagues
to forcefully respond and swiftly
respond to any Russian action.
But at the same time, we will continue
to lean in on the diplomacy.
And as you know, we've been very, very clear
in our pronouncements concerning American citizens and Ukraine.
And I just wanted to reiterate that while we're speaking that,
American citizens should make every effort
to leave Ukraine while they have the opportunity
to do so freely.
You've heard the Secretary of State,
you've heard that from the National Security advisor,
as well as from the president.
But we are preparing to respond as I noted very swiftly should
the situation deteriorate.